OSSM-8958: Cluster-wide migration using istio injection label (#89324)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/ossm-migrating-workloads-using-the-istio-injection-label.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * service-mesh-docs-main/migrating/checklists/ossm-migrating-cluster-wide-assembly.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ossm-migrating-workloads-using-the-istio-injection-label_{context}"]
= Migrating workloads using the istio injection label

Now you can migrate your workloads from the {SMProduct} 2.6 control plane to the {SMproduct} 3.0 control plane.

[NOTE]
====
You can migrate workloads and gateways separately, and in any order. For more information, see "Migrating gateways".
====

.Procedure

> . Find the current `IstioRevision` for your {SMProduct} 3.0 control plane by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Find the current `IstioRevision` resource for your {SMProduct} 3.0 control plane by running the following command:
```

- Object name is missing

https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/blob/main/contributing_to_docs/doc_guidelines.adoc#object-references

> An object reference is when you are referring to the actual instance of an API object, where the object name is important.

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get istios
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
NAME             REVISIONS   READY   IN USE   ACTIVE REVISION   STATUS    VERSION   AGE
ossm-3           1           1       0        ossm-3-v1-24-3    Healthy   v1.24.3   30s

> ----
> 
> . Copy the "ACTIVE REVISION" to use as your `istio.io/rev` label in the next step.
> +
> [NOTE]
> ====
> The naming format of your revisions depends on which upgrade strategy you choose for your `Istio` instance.
> ====

Reviewer: ```suggestion
----
+
Copy the `ACTIVE REVISION` value to use as your `istio.io/rev` label in the next step.
+
[NOTE]
====
The naming format of your revisions depends on which upgrade strategy you choose for your `Istio` instance.
====
```

This copy instruction should be put right under the example output instead of a separate step for clarity.

Author: Done

. Update the injection labels on the data plane namespace by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label ns bookinfo istio.io/rev=ossm-3-v1-24-3 maistra.io/ignore-namespace="true" istio-injection- --overwrite=true
----
+
Running the command performs the following actions:

.. Removes the `istio-injection` label: This label prevents the 3.0 control plane from injecting the proxy. The `istio-injection` label takes precedence over `istio.io/rev` label. Because you cannot create the default `IstioRevisionTag` yet, you must temporarily remove the `istio-injection=enabled`. Leaving the `istio-injection=enabled` label applied would prevent the 3.0 control plane from performing proxy injection. 

> .. Adds the `istio.io/rev=ossm-3-v1-24-3` label: This label takes precedence over `istio.io/rev` label, which must be removed. Leaving the `istio-injection=enabled` label applied would prevent the 3.0 control plane from performing proxy injection. 

Author: Thank you, this is one of the items I wanted to discuss.

> Running the command performs the following actions:
> 
> .. Removes the `istio-injection` label: This label prevents the 3.0 control plane from injecting the proxy. The `istio-injection` label takes precedence over `istio.io/rev` label. Because you cannot create the default `IstioRevisionTag` yet, you must temporarily remove the `istio-injection=enabled`. Leaving the `istio-injection=enabled` label applied would prevent the 3.0 control plane from performing proxy injection. 
> 
> .. Adds the `istio.io/rev=ossm-3-v1-24-3` label: This label ensures that any newly created or restarted pods in the namespace connect to the {SMProduct} 3.0 proxy.
> 
> .. Adds the `maistra.io/ignore-namespace: "true"` label: This label disables sidecar injection for {SMProduct} 2.6 proxies in the namespace. With the label applied, {SMProduct} 2.6 stops injecting proxies in this namespace, and any new proxies are injected by {SMProduct} 3.0. Without this label, the {SMProduct} 2.6 injection webhook tries to inject the pod and the injected sidecar proxy will refuse to start since it will have both the {SMProduct} 2.6 and the {SMProduct} 3.0 Container Network Interface(CNI) annotations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `oc label` command performs the following actions:

* Removes the `istio-injection` label: This label prevents the 3.0 control plane from injecting the proxy. The `istio-injection` label takes precedence over the `istio.io/rev` label, because you cannot create the default `IstioRevisionTag` tag yet. You must temporarily remove the `istio-injection=enabled` label. Leaving the `istio-injection=enabled` label applied would prevent the 3.0 control plane from performing proxy injection. 

* Adds the `istio.io/rev=ossm-3-v1-24-3` label: This label ensures that any newly created or restarted pods in the namespace connect to the {SMProduct} 3.0 proxy.

* Adds the `maistra.io/ignore-namespace: "true"` label: This label disables sidecar injection for {SMProduct} 2.6 proxies in the namespace. With the label applied, {SMProduct} 2.6 stops injecting proxies in this namespace, and any new proxies are injected by {SMProduct} 3.0. Without this label, the {SMProduct} 2.6 injection webhook tries to inject the pod and the injected sidecar proxy refuses to start since it has both the {SMProduct} 2.6 and the {SMProduct} 3.0 Container Network Interface(CNI) annotations.
```

These would be represented better as bullets instead of sub steps. (Ensure it renders correctly)

Author: Done.

. Restart the workloads by using one of the following options:
+

> .. To restart all the workloads at once so that the new pods are injected with the {SMProduct} 3.0 proxy, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. To restart all the workloads at the same time so that the new pods are injected with the {SMProduct} 3.0 proxy, run the following command:
```

+
.Example command for `bookinfo` application
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc rollout restart deployments -n bookinfo
----

.. To restart each workload individually, run the following command for each workload:
+

> .Example command with `bookinfo` application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.Example command for `bookinfo` application
```

To be parallel with line no 59

Author: Done

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc rollout restart deployments productpage-v1 -n bookinfo
----

. Wait for the `productpage` application to restart by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc rollout status deployment productpage-v1 -n bookinfo
----

.Verification

> . Ensure that expected workloads are managed by the new control plane by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verify that expected workloads are managed by the new control plane by running the following command:
```

+
[source,terminal]
----
$ istioctl ps -n bookinfo
----
+
.Sample output:
[source,terminal]
----

> $ istioctl ps -n bookinfo

Reviewer: ```suggestion

```

Looks like this command became a part of an output, can be removed.

details-v1-7f46897b-d497c.bookinfo            Kubernetes     SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          NOT SENT     istiod-install-istio-system-866b57d668-6lpcr     1.20.8
productpage-v1-74bfbd4d65-vsxqm.bookinfo      Kubernetes     SYNCED (4s)     SYNCED (4s)     SYNCED (3s)     SYNCED (4s)     IGNORED      istiod-ossm-3-v1-24-3-797bb4d78f-xpchx           1.24.3
ratings-v1-559b64556-c5ppg.bookinfo           Kubernetes     SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          NOT SENT     istiod-install-istio-system-866b57d668-6lpcr     1.20.8
reviews-v1-847fb7c54d-qxt5d.bookinfo          Kubernetes     SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          NOT SENT     istiod-install-istio-system-866b57d668-6lpcr     1.20.8
reviews-v2-5c7ff5b77b-8jbhd.bookinfo          Kubernetes     SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          NOT SENT     istiod-install-istio-system-866b57d668-6lpcr     1.20.8
reviews-v3-5c5d764c9b-rrx8w.bookinfo          Kubernetes     SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          NOT SENT     istiod-install-istio-system-866b57d668-6lpcr     1.20.8
----
+

> The previous output shows that the `productpage-v1` deployment is the only deployment that restarted and was injected with the 3.0 proxy. Even if there are different versions of the proxies, communication between services still works.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The output shows that the `productpage-v1` deployment is the only deployment that restarted and was injected with the 3.0 proxy. Even if there are different versions of the proxies, communication between services still works.
```

Author: done

> . If the 2.6 installation contains additional namespaces, migrate the next namespace now.

Reviewer: Should this also be a part of the note below?

Author: No, in this case, this is not part of the note.

+

> [Note]

Author: Done

====

> Do not remove the `maistra.io/ignore-namespace="true"` label until the 2.6 control plane is uninstalled.

Reviewer: This note is not rendering properly in the preview.

Author: Done

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//

> // * service-mesh-docs-main/migrating/checklists/ossm-migrating-cluster-wide-assembly.adoc

Author: Done

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ossm-migrating-workloads-using-the-istio-injection-label_{context}"]
= Migrating workloads by using the istio injection label

Now you can migrate your workloads from the {SMProduct} 2.6 control plane to the {SMproduct} 3.0 control plane.

> [NOTE]

Author: We used the same description in a few related tasks. I will discuss with the team after the release. We don't have time to update this across all the docs before the release.

====
You can migrate workloads and gateways separately, and in any order. For more information, see "Migrating gateways".
====

.Procedure

. Find the current `IstioRevision` resource for your {SMProduct} 3.0 control plane by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc get istios
----
+
.Example output
+
[source,terminal]
----
NAME             REVISIONS   READY   IN USE   ACTIVE REVISION   STATUS    VERSION   AGE
ossm-3           1           1       0        ossm-3-v1-24-3    Healthy   v1.24.3   30s
----

. Copy the `ACTIVE REVISION` value to use as your `istio.io/rev` label in the next step.
+
[NOTE]
====
The naming format of your revisions depends on which upgrade strategy you choose for your `Istio` instance.
====

. Update the injection labels on the data plane namespace by running the following command:

> +

Author: We use the same language in multiple documents. I would prefer to maintain the consistency across the docs.

[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label ns bookinfo istio.io/rev=ossm-3-v1-24-3 maistra.io/ignore-namespace="true" istio-injection- --overwrite=true
----
+

> The `oc label` command performs the following actions:

Author: Sorry, @agantony  I don't understand this comment.

There are a set of four related procedures, and they all use this language. I would prefer to keep this as is, unless absolutely necessary to make the change. We have a release deadline this coming Monday, and I have to merge this PR. Then, I can rebase to pull in these changes and continue to work on the additional related PRs.

.. Removes the `istio-injection` label: This label prevents the 3.0 control plane from injecting the proxy. The `istio-injection` label takes precedence over the `istio.io/rev` label. You must temporarily remove the `istio-injection=enabled` because you cannot create the default `IstioRevisionTag` tag yet. Leaving the `istio-injection=enabled` label applied would prevent the 3.0 control plane from performing proxy injection. 

.. Adds the `istio.io/rev=ossm-3-v1-24-3` label: This label ensures that any newly created or restarted pods in the namespace connect to the {SMProduct} 3.0 proxy.

> .. Adds the `maistra.io/ignore-namespace: "true"` label: This label disables sidecar injection for {SMProduct} 2.6 proxies in the namespace. With the label applied, {SMProduct} 2.6 stops injecting proxies in this namespace, and any new proxies are injected by {SMProduct} 3.0. Without this label, the {SMProduct} 2.6 injection webhook tries to inject the pod and the injected sidecar proxy refuses to start since it will has both the {SMProduct} 2.6 and the {SMProduct} 3.0 Container Network Interface(CNI) annotations.

Author: Would prefer to keep as is for now because of the set of related procedures. Will discuss with team after the Monday release.

+
[NOTE]
====

> Once you apply the `maistra.io/ignore-namespace` label, any new pod that gets created in the namespace connects to the {SMProduct} 3.0 proxy. Workloads can still communicate with each other regardless of which control plane they are connected to.

Author: Done

====

. Restart the workloads by using one of the following options:
+

> .. To restart all the workloads at once so that the new pods are injected with the {SMProduct} 3.0 proxy, run the following command:

Author: Done

+
.Example command for `bookinfo` application
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc rollout restart deployments -n bookinfo
----

> .. To restart each workload individually, run the following command for each workload:

Author: The set of related procedures is formatted this way.  Some are already merged. Would prefer to keep them all the same.

+
.Example command for `bookinfo` application
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc rollout restart deployments productpage-v1 -n bookinfo
----

. Wait for the `productpage` application to restart by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc rollout status deployment productpage-v1 -n bookinfo
----

.Verification

> . Verify that expected workloads are managed by the new control plane by running the following command:

Author: Done

details-v1-7f46897b-d497c.bookinfo            Kubernetes     SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          NOT SENT     istiod-install-istio-system-866b57d668-6lpcr     1.20.8
productpage-v1-74bfbd4d65-vsxqm.bookinfo      Kubernetes     SYNCED (4s)     SYNCED (4s)     SYNCED (3s)     SYNCED (4s)     IGNORED      istiod-ossm-3-v1-24-3-797bb4d78f-xpchx           1.24.3
ratings-v1-559b64556-c5ppg.bookinfo           Kubernetes     SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          NOT SENT     istiod-install-istio-system-866b57d668-6lpcr     1.20.8
reviews-v1-847fb7c54d-qxt5d.bookinfo          Kubernetes     SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          NOT SENT     istiod-install-istio-system-866b57d668-6lpcr     1.20.8
reviews-v2-5c7ff5b77b-8jbhd.bookinfo          Kubernetes     SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          NOT SENT     istiod-install-istio-system-866b57d668-6lpcr     1.20.8
reviews-v3-5c5d764c9b-rrx8w.bookinfo          Kubernetes     SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          NOT SENT     istiod-install-istio-system-866b57d668-6lpcr     1.20.8
----
+

> The output shows that the `productpage-v1` deployment is the only deployment that restarted and was injected with the 3.0 proxy. Even if there are different versions of the proxies, communication between services still works.

Author: Done

> The output shows that the `productpage-v1` deployment is the only deployment that restarted and was injected with the 3.0 proxy. Even if there are different versions of the proxies, communication between services still works.

Author: Done

. If the 2.6 installation contains additional namespaces, migrate the next namespace now.
+

> [NOTE]

Author: Will leave as note; similar to above.

====

> Do not remove the `maistra.io/ignore-namespace="true"` label until the 2.6 control plane is uninstalled.

Author: Done

//
// * service-mesh-docs-main/migrating/checklists/ossm-migrating-cluster-wide-assembly.adoc

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="ossm-migrating-workloads-using-the-istio-injection-label_{context}"]
= Migrating workloads using the istio injection label

Now you can migrate your workloads from the {SMProduct} 2.6 control plane to the {SMproduct} 3.0 control plane.

[NOTE]
====
You can migrate workloads and gateways separately, and in any order. For more information, see "Migrating gateways".
====

.Procedure

. Update the injection labels on the data plane namespace by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ oc label ns bookinfo istio.io/rev=ossm-3-v1-24-3 maistra.io/ignore-namespace="true" istio-injection- --overwrite=true
----
+
The previous example adds two labels and removes one.
+
The `istio.io/rev=ossm-3-v1-24-3` label ensures that 3.0 proxy gets injected to any new or restarted pods in the namespace. In the previous example, the 3.0 revision is named `ossm-3-v1-24-3`.
+
The `maistra.io/ignore-namespace: "true"` label ensures that 2.6 control plane stops injecting proxies in this namespace to avoid conflicts between 2.6 and 3.0 side car injectors.
+

> The `istio-injection` label must be removed if it exists because it takes precedence over `istio.io/rev` label. Leaving the `istio-injection=enabled` label applied prevents proxy injection.

Reviewer 2: Here we need to explain why we are removing `istio-injection=enabled` when we actually want it there. It's only tmp operation so we need to follow the original content here:
`Because we can't create the default IstioRevisionTag yet. It's necessary to temporarily remove the istio-injection=enabled as it would prevent the proxy injection by 3.0 control plane as the istio-injection label takes precedence over istio.io/rev label.`

Author: done

details-v1-7f46897b-d497c.bookinfo            Kubernetes     SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          NOT SENT     istiod-install-istio-system-866b57d668-6lpcr     1.20.8
productpage-v1-74bfbd4d65-vsxqm.bookinfo      Kubernetes     SYNCED (4s)     SYNCED (4s)     SYNCED (3s)     SYNCED (4s)     IGNORED      istiod-ossm-3-v1-24-1-797bb4d78f-xpchx           1.24.3
ratings-v1-559b64556-c5ppg.bookinfo           Kubernetes     SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          NOT SENT     istiod-install-istio-system-866b57d668-6lpcr     1.20.8
reviews-v1-847fb7c54d-qxt5d.bookinfo          Kubernetes     SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          NOT SENT     istiod-install-istio-system-866b57d668-6lpcr     1.20.8
reviews-v2-5c7ff5b77b-8jbhd.bookinfo          Kubernetes     SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          NOT SENT     istiod-install-istio-system-866b57d668-6lpcr     1.20.8
reviews-v3-5c5d764c9b-rrx8w.bookinfo          Kubernetes     SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          SYNCED          NOT SENT     istiod-install-istio-system-866b57d668-6lpcr     1.20.8
----
+

> Even if there are different versions of the proxies communication between services should work.

Reviewer 2: Let's use the same improved version like in the other PR here.

Author: done
